docs(testing): Update testing contribution documentation (#2561)
primer/react: contributor-docs/testing.md

We predominantly use [@testing-library/react](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/)'s testing helpers such as

- [render](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/api#render) to render components
- [userEvent](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro/) or [Event API](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/api-events/) to fire events and simulate user interaction on the component\*
- `screen`
- `act`

To make assertions about the elements we use [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) and [jest-dom](https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom).

\*: You can read about the differences between `fireEvent` and `UserEvent` [here](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro/#differences-from-fireevent).

###Running Unit Tests

| Task                | Command                  |
| :------------------ | :----------------------- |
| Run unit tests      | `npm test`               |
| Run a specific test | `npm test ComponentName` |
| Debug unit tests    | `npm test -- --watch`    |
| Unit test coverage  | `npm test -- --coverage` |
| Update snapshots    | `npm test -- -u`         |

> ##Interaction Tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Interaction Tests
```

### As A Part Of Unit Tests

We write our unit tests from a user perspective rather than focusing on implementation details. Simulating events to test user interations is a core part of our testing practise.

We write user interaction tests leveraging [@testing-library/react](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/)’s [userEvent](<[userEvent](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro/)>) testing helper.

### Storybook Tests

We use [Storybook interactions tests](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/writing-tests/interaction-testing) to simulate and test some complex user interactions. They are particularly useful for cases where writing unit tests are not practical due the limitation of the mock browser functionalities of JSDOM. For example testing out a component's overflow behaviour whose responsiveness is managed by its own dynamic width.

Storybook tests are authored within the components's source directory with the file name of `interactions.stories.tsx`

> ##Visual Regression Tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Visual Regression Tests
```

> ###Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Overview
```

<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
## Table of Contents

- [Strategy](#strategy)
- [Unit Tests](#unit-tests)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [What We Test](#what-we-test)
  - [Running Tests](#running-tests)
- [Visual Regression Tests](#visual-regression-tests)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Components](#components)
    - [Visual Regression Testing](#visual-regression-testing)
    - [Accessibility Verification Testing](#accessibility-verification-testing)
- [Interaction Tests](#interaction-tests)
  - [As A Part Of Unit Tests](#as-a-part-of-unit-tests)
  - [Storybook Interaction Tests](#storybook-interaction-tests)
- [Accessibility Tests](#accessibility-tests)
- [Continous Integration](#continous-integration)
- [FAQ](#faq)
  - [Why am I seeing `browserType.launch: Executable doesn't exist at ../path`?](#why-am-i-seeing-browsertypelaunch-executable-doesnt-exist-at-path)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> ##Strategy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Strategy
``` 

Heads up that the headings are missing a space

> Strategy

Author: I need some help here. Especially from folks who has been in the team for a while. How would you describe our strategy to testing?

Reviewer 3: Here are some bullet points based on my experience on the team:
- We cover all use-cases within reason. We strive for 100% coverage, but 
- Tests should catch regressions in functionality, visual design, and user experience in general
  - Regressions in functionality are caught by unit tests and interaction tests executed using [Storybook Play functions](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/writing-stories/play-function)
  - Regressions in visual design are caught by Chromatic (and sometimes by snapshots)
  - Regressions in user experience are caught by a11y linting of snapshots and interaction tests executed using [Storybook Play functions](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/writing-stories/play-function)
- Tests can help us avoid making the same mistake twice. When we find a bug that wasn't caught by tests, we write a test to cover that case. (I guess this is related to the last point about regressions)

Author: > Tests should catch regressions in functionality, visual design, and user experience in general 

I love it. This is very comprehensive yet simplified 💖

Reviewer 2: @mperrotti nailed it. 

A few other things for historical context...

- Snapshot testing with React components in the past has led to artificially inflated test coverage on certain components. Unfortunately these won't provide the required resiliency against regressions, so maintainers agreed to either use them as supplementary test coverage to a traditional unit test or avoid it altogether. This was discussed in an eng sync last year, but we never reached the critical mass on removing it entirely. 

- I'd refer to the transition away from enzyme to behavioural testing paradigms. So less testing against internal mechanics and rather focussing on the input/output. The testing library docs are a good enough reference point, and we should also probably consider adopting most of their recommendations for matchers and assertions.

- Unit tests should cover happy _and_ unhappy paths, with localised mocks where necessary. While we don't follow TDD formally, it could help for designers and engineers to be aware of all unhappy paths before building out components so that those scenario's are captured in our test suites.

Author: Ah, thank you so much you all, love them! I'll collate them together and put something up for our strategy 🚀

Author: I wrote the strategy section 😅 I tried to cover all of your amazing points here and some of them like tool specific regression tests are mentioned under other sections. I would appreciate if you could give it a read and let me know what you think. Anything I missed, or misinterpreted, or got it completely wrong, or any grammar mistakes, typo all are appreciated 🙏🏼

> ##Unit Tests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Unit Tests
```

> ###Overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Overview
```

We use [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) as our test runner to write and run our unit tests. Our prefered way of structuring tests is with `describe/it` block format and they are authored within the components's source directory with the file name of `componentName.test.tsx`

> We predominantly use [@testing-library/react](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/)'s testing helpers such as

Reviewer 3: It might be worth mentioning that we are trying to move away from [enzyme](https://enzymejs.github.io/enzyme/). What do you think?

Author: Great point! Yes agreed 🙌🏼  We might as well mention that we are trying to move away from [react-test-renderer](https://reactjs.org/docs/test-renderer.html), at least this is what I gathered? `render` from `@testing-library/react` is much more enhanced and [has accessible queries](https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/about/#priority).

Author: I covered @rezrah 's point about moving away from enzyme more like us moving towards behavioural testing paradigm in the strategy and @joshblack has [a PR](https://github.com/primer/react/pull/2584) to remove the existing enzyme tests 🎉 So I didn't explicitly mentioned about it here. Let me know if you have any concerns or would like to add anything 😊

- [render](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/api#render) to render components
- [userEvent](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro/) or [Event API](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/api-events/) to fire events and simulate user interaction on the component\*

> - `screen`

Author: I listed the most common helpers we use to give an overview. We can add more if there are other common helpers we use.

- `act`

To make assertions about the elements we use [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) and [jest-dom](https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom).

\*: You can read about the differences between `fireEvent` and `UserEvent` [here](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro/#differences-from-fireevent).

###What We Test

> We try to achieve high coverage on unit tests and make sure to test components' API such as their props, events and callback functions.

Author: I am glad you mentioned that Josh, because I think this needs to be unpacked and 100% agree about setting a baseline here if we are going to use them as a metric.

I spoke this with @colebemis and I think with @siddharthkp as well if I don't remember wrong. From what I gathered, they might be useful as a reference point but because we do not have much clarity around what is expected, it feels a bit ambiguous to mention about unit test coverage in the docs. 

Would be great to hear what others think 👀

We also have extra set of functions to test common functionalities of components. They are

- BehavesAsComponent
- checkExports
- checkStoriesForAxeViolations

We make sure that every component has [these fundamental unit tests](https://github.com/primer/react/blob/main/src/utils/testing.tsx).

###Running Unit Tests

| Task                | Command                  |
| :------------------ | :----------------------- |
| Run unit tests      | `npm test`               |

> | Run a specific test | `npm test ComponentName` |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Run a specific test | `npm test -- ComponentName` |
```

I think this might need to be formatted like this if I remember right.

Author: Both triggers the same `jest ComponentName` command 🤔

Reviewer 4: @broccolinisoup TIL! That's awesome 🔥

> | Debug unit tests    | `npm run test:watch`     |
> | Update snapshots    | `npm run test:update`    |
> | Unit test coverage  | `npm run test:coverage`  |

Reviewer 4: Since these are all proxies to the Jest option, what would you think of adding the alias through `npm test`? For example:

```suggestion
| Debug unit tests    | `npm test -- --watch`     |
| Update snapshots    | `npm test -- -u`    |
```

Author: Hmm. I prefer running `npm run test:watch` than `npm test -- --watch` because passing params feels so imperative to me. That said, this might be a personal choice and I am happy to revert or include both if that is a preferred way  😊

Author: Do you usually prefer running the tools' command over package.json scripts or is here a bit of a special case do you think because of the proxies ? @joshblack

Reviewer 4: @broccolinisoup I think if it's helpful and intuitive for folks then it's definitely worth including 👍 

I think the only things that I personally would want to avoid would be:

1. Ambiguity for an npm script, someone isn't sure what it does or its unclear what npm script to use for a task
2. An npm script for each option of a tool

For 1, I think something like `test:coverage` or `test:watch` could be confusing if there are multiple test tools (like if we're using Playwright and Jest). 

For 2, I think this is more of a personal preference on my end. I think a lot of this comes from `yarn` where you didn't have to pass `--` for options and so commands were  like `yarn test -u` and felt natural

Author: As we discussed in our call, great points! I updated them as you recommended 🌞

I still kept the npm scripts (like `npm run test:SOMETHING`) in the package.json for folks who are more comfortable running them over `npm test` 😊

script/test:e2e --grep @avt
```

## Accessibility Tests

> To be written in the collaboration with Eric Bailey.

Reviewer 3: Maybe instead of specifically mentioning Eric, we should just say "the accessibility team". It's possible that Eric will get pulled onto something else and somebody else will help us with the a11y tests.

Author: I think it is a good idea. I talked about this with Eric and asked if he can help us. This is why I mentioned his name here but in case he gets busy, someone else from the accessibility team can help us ❤️ 

Also, I created [a separate ticket for it](https://github.com/github/primer/issues/1509) because I think there is some good amount of writing work we need to do there.

Reviewer 2: ➕ to this.. we should avoid referencing specific Hubbers directly in code or enduring documentation. Just referring to the Accessibility team or maybe a specific reviewer team like `@accessibility-reviewers` should provide enough clarity.

Author: I removed this section entirely as it was just there as a placeholder or a to-do. I created [an issue](https://github.com/github/primer/issues/1509) for it, therefore not needed anymore

## Continous Integration

All the tests are ran on our continous integration workflows.

> Unit tests are included in the `test` job, playwright tests are included in the `avt` and `vrt` jobs of the `CI` workflow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unit tests are included in the `test` job, Playwright tests are included in the `avt` and `vrt` jobs of the `CI` workflow.
```

Storybook tests are ran in `Storybook Tests` workflow.

> The results of the playwright test run are uploaded at the end of the job and are available

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The results of the Playwright test run are uploaded at the end of the job and are available
```

## Continous Integration

> All the tests are ran on our continous integration workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the tests run on our continuous integration workflows.
```
